Teacher + Student = dumb and dumber

This content is derived from APC Magazine, November 2007.

We had no idea there were so many dumb IT trainers and students out there.

The stories just keep coming in.

COPY, COPY

David Tune of Boambee, NSW, was reminded of a particularly clever pair of IT Diploma
students who handed in a joint research assignment, complete with the required signed
statement that it was all their original work.

Tune recalls: "Upon reading the work for grading, I was incredibly impressed to find
three pages of the document written in perfect technical German, particularly given
that the students in question were none too articulate when I asked 'Sprechen sie Deutsch?'

End result: assignment rejected, students counselled and more care taken when cutting
and pasting to cover assignment work.

THAT'S MY LECTURE

Anyone attending an IT lecture should expect that the lecturer knows the subject.
But IT lecturers are a funny lot.

Jun Li, a programmer, recalls working in IT support at a school.

"I was told to set up a projector in one of the meeting rooms for school staff,
as there was a presentation. Having done that, I hooked the presentation laptop
to the network and tried to help one of the speakers from the IT faculty update
the laptop to IE7. I logged off and asked her to log on with her account to try
IE7.

'What is that?' she asked when the IE7 install process asked whether phishing
should be turned on. After I explained it, she told me that she was about to
present a talk on internet security."

TUTORING THE TUTOR

Neil Meyers, library assistant from Gilles Plains in SA, recalls an incident
with a part-time computer lecturer a couple of years ago.

"I work in a vocational education library, and, on night shift, library staff are
the default computer technicians/troubleshooters. One night, this part-time
lecturer came to the counter, stating that she'd managed to get a CD-ROM disc
stuck in the drive. She also said she felt a bit foolish, because she was
instructing a class in basic computing and was unable to solve the problem in
front of a room full of students.

So I wandered over to give her assistance, pushed the drive eject button, out
popped the tray and... no disc to be seen.

Before I was able to ask out the obvious question, she piped up,
'That's the CD drive? I thought it was the other one!', pointing to an old 5.25in
floppy disc slot, which was there even though the drives themselves had long
since been decommissioned.

Someone from IT got out the disc the next day when they upended the machine
and it fell out. Then, a week later, after I gave the lecturer her CD back,
she was back within five minutes, saying, 'You won't believe it, I've done it again!'

And this was their computing tutor? So there I am in front of her class,
shaking the heck out of the machine. So much for teaching people to handle
their computers with care!"


Content is provided with permission from APC Magazine (TechRadar.com) for the
purposes of education and training. Content is Copyright 2007 APC Magazine.
